Importing and interpolating the initial conditions required for test two:

The data provided is based on initial conditions therefore the data must show the concentration at each distance at t=0. These concentration values will be the initial theta values for test two. This task involved converting the provided data into a form that can be used in calculations.

This section begins with defining  what each variable means for clarity, before importing pandas, necessary for reading in the initial conditions which have been added to the repository. Note, ‘encoding=latin1’ was used to prevent an error when reading the initial conditions into the actual code. Following this, the canvas data provided is converted into a matrix using Numpy (which has previously been added to repository). Data is then converted into a series (theta_preinterpol_series) before an index of distance  (distance_index) can be made. As the data provided for distance is linear, it can be lined up with the domain using a linspace function where ‘(0,20,101)’ indicates the start, end, and number of values. 

Interpolating the concentration consists of two sections. The first is using the reindex function (based on information in the pandas data guide). It produces ‘NaNs’ where the four data points (at 0.2 intervals between the integers). The additional interval points had been previous produced in the linspace function. For example, 0.6m’s corresponding concentration is stored as ‘NaNs’. Next, the interpolate function is used to find the values of all the NaNs. From the data, corresponding distances and concentration levels are known when the distance is an integer so the values for non-integers (for example 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, and 0.8) are interpolated between these (for example 0 and 1). The interpolation assumes data points are linear between the two known integers’ concentrations. Finally the concentration data is converted into a form that can be used as the initial values of theta in the calculations.
